docs/architecture-scorer.md, before:

# Architecture Scorer

The Architecture Scorer is the runtime engine that evaluates application contexts against the architecture catalog and returns ranked recommendations with explanations.

## Overview

The scorer:
- Takes application context data as input
- Evaluates against all catalog architectures
- Filters ineligible architectures
- Scores and ranks eligible architectures
- Generates clarification questions for low-confidence signals
- Returns explained recommendations

## Installation

The scorer is included with the main package:

```bash
pip install -e .
```

## CLI Usage

### Score Command

Score an application context against the catalog:

```bash
# Basic usage
architecture-scorer score \
  --catalog architecture-catalog.json \
  --context app-context.json

# Interactive mode (default) - prompts for question answers
architecture-scorer score -c catalog.json -x context.json

# Non-interactive mode
architecture-scorer score -c catalog.json -x context.json --no-interactive

# Provide answers directly
architecture-scorer score -c catalog.json -x context.json \
  -a treatment=replatform \
  -a security_level=enterprise \
  -a operating_model=devops

# Output as JSON
architecture-scorer score -c catalog.json -x context.json --output json
```

### Questions Command

Show only clarification questions without scoring:

```bash
architecture-scorer questions -c catalog.json -x context.json
```

### Validate Command

Validate catalog and context files:

```bash
architecture-scorer validate -c catalog.json -x context.json
```

## Programmatic Usage

```python
from architecture_scorer.engine import ScoringEngine

# Initialize engine
engine = ScoringEngine()
engine.load_catalog("architecture-catalog.json")

# Get clarification questions
questions = engine.get_questions("context.json")

# Score with user answers
result = engine.score(
    "context.json",
    user_answers={"treatment": "replatform", "security_level": "enterprise"},
    max_recommendations=5
)

# Access results
print(f"Application: {result.application_name}")
print(f"Confidence: {result.summary.confidence_level}")

for rec in result.recommendations:
    print(f"{rec.name}: {rec.likelihood_score}%")
```

## Scoring Dimensions

| Dimension | Weight | Description |
|-----------|--------|-------------|
| treatment_alignment | 20% | Gartner 8R treatment match |
| platform_compatibility | 15% | App Mod platform status |
| app_mod_recommended | 10% | Boost for App Mod recommended targets |
| runtime_model_compatibility | 10% | Runtime model match |
| service_overlap | 10% | Approved Azure services match |
| availability_alignment | 10% | Availability model match |
| operating_model_fit | 8% | Operational maturity fit |
| complexity_tolerance | 7% | Complexity vs business criticality |
| browse_tag_overlap | 5% | Relevant browse tags match |
| cost_posture_alignment | 5% | Cost profile match |

## Catalog Quality Weights

| Quality | Weight | Description |
|---------|--------|-------------|
| curated | 100% | From authoritative YamlMime:Architecture |
| ai_enriched | 95% | Partial authoritative data |
| ai_suggested | 85% | AI-extracted metadata |
| example_only | 70% | Example scenarios, not prescriptive |

## Confidence Levels

Each recommendation includes a confidence assessment:

| Level | Requirements |
|-------|--------------|
| **High** | Score ≥75% AND Penalty <10% AND Low Signals ≤1 AND Assumptions ≤2 |
| **Medium** | Score ≥50% AND Penalty <20% AND Low Signals ≤3 |
| **Low** | Does not meet Medium criteria |

### Confidence Penalties

| Signal Confidence | Penalty |
|-------------------|---------|
| HIGH | 0% |
| MEDIUM | 5% per signal |
| LOW | 15% per signal |
| UNKNOWN | 25% per signal |

## Clarification Questions

Questions are dynamically generated based on signal confidence:

| Question | Dimension | When Asked |
|----------|-----------|------------|
| Migration strategy | `treatment` | No declared treatment, low confidence |
| Strategic investment posture | `time_category` | UNKNOWN confidence only |
| Availability requirements | `availability` | Low confidence |
| Security/compliance level | `security_level` | No compliance requirements specified |
| Operational maturity | `operating_model` | Low confidence |
| Cost optimization priority | `cost_posture` | Low confidence |

### Signals Without Questions

Three signals cannot be addressed via questions:

| Signal | Source |
|--------|--------|
| `likely_runtime_model` | Derived from App Mod or technology |
| `modernization_depth_feasible` | Derived from App Mod results |
| `cloud_native_feasibility` | Derived from App Mod results |

To achieve higher confidence, provide App Mod results in your context file.

## Eligibility Filtering

Architectures are excluded when:

1. **Treatment mismatch** - Architecture doesn't support the application's treatment
2. **TIME category mismatch** - Architecture doesn't fit the strategic posture
3. **Not suitable for** rules - Application triggers exclusion rules (e.g., `low_devops_maturity`, `stateful_apps`)
4. **Platform incompatibility** - App Mod indicates platform not ready

## Output Schema

```python
class ScoringResult:
    application_name: str
    derived_intent: DerivedIntent
    recommendations: list[ArchitectureRecommendation]
    summary: SummaryResult
    catalog_architecture_count: int

class ArchitectureRecommendation:
    architecture_id: str
    name: str
    pattern_name: str
    description: str
    likelihood_score: float  # 0-100
    catalog_quality: CatalogQuality
    matched_dimensions: list[MatchedDimension]
    mismatched_dimensions: list[MismatchedDimension]
    assumptions: list[AssumptionMade]
    fit_summary: list[str]
    struggle_summary: list[str]
    core_services: list[str]
    supporting_services: list[str]
    learn_url: str
    diagram_url: str
```

## Example Output

```
╭─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│  Architecture Scoring Results                                               │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

Application: PaymentGateway
Treatment: refactor | TIME Category: invest
Eligible Architectures: 12 | Excluded: 159

Your Answers Applied:
  • security_level: regulated
  • operating_model: devops

╭─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│  Top 5 Recommendations                                                      │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

1. AKS Baseline Cluster Architecture
   Score: 74% | Confidence: MEDIUM | Quality: curated
   URL: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/...

   ✓ Matched: treatment_alignment, platform_compatibility, service_overlap
   ✗ Gaps: availability_alignment (partial)
   ⚠ Assumptions: runtime_model inferred from app type
```

## Related Documentation

- [Catalog Builder](./catalog-builder.md) - Generate architecture catalogs
- [Recommendations App](./recommendations-app.md) - Customer-facing web application
- [Scorer Spec](./design/architecture-scorer-prompt-v1.md) - Full specification

Commit message:

docs: Update documentation to clarify prerequisites for application context files and integration with Dr. Migrate

docs/architecture-scorer.md, after:

# Architecture Scorer

The Architecture Scorer is the runtime engine that evaluates application contexts against the architecture catalog and returns ranked recommendations with explanations.

## Prerequisites

The scorer requires an **application context file** generated by [Dr. Migrate](https://drmigrate.com). Context files are created during migration planning when you [assess an application with AppCat](https://learn.drmigrate.com/docs/using-dr-migrate/migration-planning/appcat-github-integration/).

For testing, you can use the [sample context files](../tests/fixtures/context_files/).

## Overview

The scorer:
- Takes application context data (from Dr. Migrate) as input
- Evaluates against all catalog architectures
- Filters ineligible architectures
- Scores and ranks eligible architectures
- Generates clarification questions for low-confidence signals
- Returns explained recommendations

## Installation

The scorer is included with the main package:

```bash
pip install -e .
```

## CLI Usage

### Score Command

Score an application context against the catalog:

```bash
# Basic usage
architecture-scorer score \
  --catalog architecture-catalog.json \
  --context app-context.json

# Interactive mode (default) - prompts for question answers
architecture-scorer score -c catalog.json -x context.json

# Non-interactive mode
architecture-scorer score -c catalog.json -x context.json --no-interactive

# Provide answers directly
architecture-scorer score -c catalog.json -x context.json \
  -a treatment=replatform \
  -a security_level=enterprise \
  -a operating_model=devops

# Output as JSON
architecture-scorer score -c catalog.json -x context.json --output json
```

### Questions Command

Show only clarification questions without scoring:

```bash
architecture-scorer questions -c catalog.json -x context.json
```

### Validate Command

Validate catalog and context files:

```bash
architecture-scorer validate -c catalog.json -x context.json
```

## Programmatic Usage

```python
from architecture_scorer.engine import ScoringEngine

# Initialize engine
engine = ScoringEngine()
engine.load_catalog("architecture-catalog.json")

# Get clarification questions
questions = engine.get_questions("context.json")

# Score with user answers
result = engine.score(
    "context.json",
    user_answers={"treatment": "replatform", "security_level": "enterprise"},
    max_recommendations=5
)

# Access results
print(f"Application: {result.application_name}")
print(f"Confidence: {result.summary.confidence_level}")

for rec in result.recommendations:
    print(f"{rec.name}: {rec.likelihood_score}%")
```

## Scoring Dimensions

| Dimension | Weight | Description |
|-----------|--------|-------------|
| treatment_alignment | 20% | Gartner 8R treatment match |
| platform_compatibility | 15% | App Mod platform status |
| app_mod_recommended | 10% | Boost for App Mod recommended targets |
| runtime_model_compatibility | 10% | Runtime model match |
| service_overlap | 10% | Approved Azure services match |
| availability_alignment | 10% | Availability model match |
| operating_model_fit | 8% | Operational maturity fit |
| complexity_tolerance | 7% | Complexity vs business criticality |
| browse_tag_overlap | 5% | Relevant browse tags match |
| cost_posture_alignment | 5% | Cost profile match |

## Catalog Quality Weights

| Quality | Weight | Description |
|---------|--------|-------------|
| curated | 100% | From authoritative YamlMime:Architecture |
| ai_enriched | 95% | Partial authoritative data |
| ai_suggested | 85% | AI-extracted metadata |
| example_only | 70% | Example scenarios, not prescriptive |

## Confidence Levels

Each recommendation includes a confidence assessment:

| Level | Requirements |
|-------|--------------|
| **High** | Score ≥75% AND Penalty <10% AND Low Signals ≤1 AND Assumptions ≤2 |
| **Medium** | Score ≥50% AND Penalty <20% AND Low Signals ≤3 |
| **Low** | Does not meet Medium criteria |

### Confidence Penalties

| Signal Confidence | Penalty |
|-------------------|---------|
| HIGH | 0% |
| MEDIUM | 5% per signal |
| LOW | 15% per signal |
| UNKNOWN | 25% per signal |

## Clarification Questions

Questions are dynamically generated based on signal confidence:

| Question | Dimension | When Asked |
|----------|-----------|------------|
| Migration strategy | `treatment` | No declared treatment, low confidence |
| Strategic investment posture | `time_category` | UNKNOWN confidence only |
| Availability requirements | `availability` | Low confidence |
| Security/compliance level | `security_level` | No compliance requirements specified |
| Operational maturity | `operating_model` | Low confidence |
| Cost optimization priority | `cost_posture` | Low confidence |

### Signals Without Questions

Three signals cannot be addressed via questions:

| Signal | Source |
|--------|--------|
| `likely_runtime_model` | Derived from App Mod or technology |
| `modernization_depth_feasible` | Derived from App Mod results |
| `cloud_native_feasibility` | Derived from App Mod results |

To achieve higher confidence, provide App Mod results in your context file.

## Eligibility Filtering

Architectures are excluded when:

1. **Treatment mismatch** - Architecture doesn't support the application's treatment
2. **TIME category mismatch** - Architecture doesn't fit the strategic posture
3. **Not suitable for** rules - Application triggers exclusion rules (e.g., `low_devops_maturity`, `stateful_apps`)
4. **Platform incompatibility** - App Mod indicates platform not ready

## Output Schema

```python
class ScoringResult:
    application_name: str
    derived_intent: DerivedIntent
    recommendations: list[ArchitectureRecommendation]
    summary: SummaryResult
    catalog_architecture_count: int

class ArchitectureRecommendation:
    architecture_id: str
    name: str
    pattern_name: str
    description: str
    likelihood_score: float  # 0-100
    catalog_quality: CatalogQuality
    matched_dimensions: list[MatchedDimension]
    mismatched_dimensions: list[MismatchedDimension]
    assumptions: list[AssumptionMade]
    fit_summary: list[str]
    struggle_summary: list[str]
    core_services: list[str]
    supporting_services: list[str]
    learn_url: str
    diagram_url: str
```

## Example Output

```
╭─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│  Architecture Scoring Results                                               │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

Application: PaymentGateway
Treatment: refactor | TIME Category: invest
Eligible Architectures: 12 | Excluded: 159

Your Answers Applied:
  • security_level: regulated
  • operating_model: devops

╭─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│  Top 5 Recommendations                                                      │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

1. AKS Baseline Cluster Architecture
   Score: 74% | Confidence: MEDIUM | Quality: curated
   URL: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/...

   ✓ Matched: treatment_alignment, platform_compatibility, service_overlap
   ✗ Gaps: availability_alignment (partial)
   ⚠ Assumptions: runtime_model inferred from app type
```

## Related Documentation

- [Catalog Builder](./catalog-builder.md) - Generate architecture catalogs
- [Recommendations App](./recommendations-app.md) - Customer-facing web application
- [Scorer Spec](./design/architecture-scorer-prompt-v1.md) - Full specification
